Visitors to turkey are often surprised to discover that in a country supposedly consumed by economic malaise, the restaurants, at least in large cities, are bursting with customers. But appearances are deceptive. A big reason for the bustle is that middle-class Turks would rather spend their earnings today than watch inflation, officially measured at 55% year on year but widely believed to be much higher, burn through their savings tomorrow. Turkey’s president, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, has bullied the central bank into slashing interest rates in the face of galloping prices, allowing the lira to plummet. He hoped this would turbocharge the economy by making exports cheaper and encouraging domestic production. The policy mix, repackaged as Turkey’s “new economic programme”, would bring inflation down to single digits ahead of this year’s presidential and parliamentary elections, his finance minister pledged. Things have not gone according to plan. Imports remain necessary but are now much more expensive. Hence they have dwarfed exports, landing Turkey with its biggest absolute current-account deficit in four decades. Annual inflation has dipped from 85% last year, but remains by far the highest in the oecd, a group of mainly rich countries. Growth continues, thanks less to exports than to an unsustainable surge in consumption. Mr Erdogan’s economic model seems to have run its course. The poor economy, compounded by the earthquakes that killed over 50,000 people in the country’s south in February, has darkened Mr Erdogan’s prospects. Opinion polls show him trailing the opposition’s joint candidate for president, Kemal Kilicdaroglu, by four or more points. For a populist strongman who enjoys a servile news media and control over the country’s institutions, that is hardly insurmountable. But it is the biggest hole Mr Erdogan has faced before any major election. How he plans to dig himself out of it remains unclear. The elections are set for May 14th, with a run-off on May 28th if no candidate gets an absolute majority in the presidential contest. More tends to happen in Turkey in two months than in most countries in two years, but Mr Erdogan seems to be running out of ideas, especially regarding the economy. Sensing a historic chance, the opposition is closing ranks. On March 22nd the country’s main Kurdish party said it would not, as had been feared, field its own candidate for the presidency, suggesting it would endorse Mr Kilicdaroglu and avoid splitting the opposition vote. Many fear that Mr Erdogan may revert to rabble-rousing. One option may be a renewed confrontation with Greece over maritime borders, says Selim Koru at the Economic Policy Research Foundation of Turkey. An election in Greece, also now expected in May, raises the risk of a clash (of words or, at worst, of arms). Domestic politics may favour hot heads over cooler ones. “I’m not sure these guys will go quietly,” says Mr Koru of Mr Erdogan and his circle. When it comes to the economy, the Turkish leader’s options are limited. Over the past three months the government has raised the minimum wage by 55%, more than doubled the basic pension and passed a law making millions of Turks eligible for early retirement.

