During Turkey’s 2018 presidential election campaign, the New York Times ran an editorial expressing support for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s opponent at the time, Muharrem Ince. After a few paragraphs, it was clear that the Times editorial board knew that it disliked Erdogan more than it knew about Ince and his views. And so it goes with Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the leader of the Republican People’s Party (CHP) and a six-party coalition’s pick to challenge Erdogan for the presidency on May 14. With just a month to go before the election, Kilicdaroglu is up by between 7 and 10 points. Yet even with Kilicdaroglu’s commanding lead, it seems hard to believe that Erdogan will lose. This is perhaps a lack of imagination, but he has been in power—first as prime minister and then as president—since 2003. Erdogan and his Justice and Development Party (AKP) have hollowed out, bent, and fashioned political institutions to ensure their grip on power. The Turkish president has used the apparatus of the state to undermine his opponents, and the vast majority of Turkey’s once boisterous, if not always responsible, media can now be relied on to recite the government line. The judiciary that was once a redoubt of the secular nationalist establishment is now the preserve of AKP supporters. Erdogan has remade the military command, which previously was loyal only to the principles of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey. Under these circumstances, it seems that only an act of God could dislodge Erdogan. Maybe the earthquake on Feb. 6 was just that. What would it mean for Turkish politics and foreign policy if Kilicdaroglu won? Some Turkish and Western commentators believe Turkey can once again be democratic, prosperous, ready to pursue membership in the European Union, and better aligned with its NATO allies. Without a doubt, it will be a sigh of relief for millions of Turks if Erdogan is vanquished and relinquishes his office. But it is unlikely that Turkey will revert to a past that never existed. The Nation Alliance (also known as the “Table of Six”) that Kilicdaroglu leads is an ideologically disparate coalition united in their loathing of Erdogan. In addition to Kilicdaroglu’s CHP, which occupies the left-center/social democrat and nationalist space, the alliance includes an offshoot of Turkey’s hard-right nationalists called the Good Party; two center-right parties led by AKP defectors Ali Babacan and Ahmet Davutoglu, respectively; and another center-right group, the Democrat Party. The other member is the religious nationalist conservative Felicity Party, which, along with the AKP, was established in 2001 after the government banned another Islamist party. Making fundamental changes to Turkey’s political institutions will not be as easy as “urgently implement[ing] … constitutional and legislative amendments,” as Kilicdaroglu and company suggest. The AKP has had 20 years to abuse Turkey’s political institutions for its benefit. Having captured the state, neither the party’s leaders nor their activists throughout the bureaucracy and the judiciary are likely to give it up so quickly. That sets up the country for a titanic struggle in which either the Nation Alliance has raised expectations too high, forcing it to back off and pay a high political price, or Turkey’s new leaders purge AKP activists within the government in order to smooth the transformation the alliance seeks. These outcomes are not unprecedented in Turkish politics. In recent decades, Turks have had their hopes raised about EU membership and, in particular, the economy, only to have their hopes dashed. The latter especially sowed political instability in the late 1990s. Purges have now become a feature of Turkish politics. In February 1997, the military issued “recommendations” to the government that sought the purge of followers of one of the AKP’s predecessor parties from government positions. And there has been an ongoing purge since 2014, when the AKP began cleansing the bureaucracy of its erstwhile partners in the Gulenist, or Hizmet, movement.